Krishnamurthy said that you cannot reach
a meditative state when your living
environment is not in perfect order this
is debatable of course especially if you
read the stoic work meditations in which
marcus aurelius states that we can take
refuge in our minds regardless of
external circumstances psychiatrist Carl
Jung states however that our living
environment is part of the subjective
experience of ourselves if that's the
case keeping our environments clean is a
requirement for attaining a calm mind
the cleaning process itself can be
regarded as a powerful form of
meditation
[Music]
when you meditate you declutter your
mind by watching your thoughts passing
by like clouds in the sky without
attaching to them the excessive thinking
patterns consisting of worries and
ruminations will dissolve meditation is
a practice that is incorporated in many
religions however religion is not
necessary to reap the benefits of it now
how can we apply meditation to cleaning
I think we can agree that a peaceful
mind is a happy mind but the mind
operates in an environment that is
objectively not the mind the mind is
hosted by the body and the body moves
around in an environment like a house a
dorm room a workplace and is most likely
accompanied by other bodies and minds
that can be of friends relatives
co-workers etc if we see our living
space as an extension of ourselves
we can conclude that keeping your
environment clean will contribute to
your sense of inner peace the idea that
certain aspects of your living
environment become parts of the
subjective experience of ourselves was
proposed by psychiatrist called Jung
that's why the manner in which our
environment is organized as a direct
effect on a well being many people
including my past self tend to
underestimate the psychological and
physical effects of a living environment
a study from Indiana University
indicates that people with clean houses
are healthier than people with messy
houses a study published in a scientific
journal Personality and Social
Psychology Bulletin states that
cluttered living spaces are more likely
to lead to depression fatigue and higher
levels of the stress hormone cortisol
another study from Princeton University
found that a messy living space makes it
harder to focus and complete tasks
efficiently also a clean environment is
at the basis of every religion and
spiritual practice I mean have you ever
seen a messy church temple or yoga room
probably not simply but if you want to
be healthy and happy
clean your room like sitting meditation
they practice for decluttering the mind
the act of cleaning is a practice for
decluttering your living space when you
clean you create order out of chaos for
many people cleaning the house is
probably the least desirable thing to do
after a long stressful day cleaning in
general gets a bad rap and many people
who earn enough will pay another person
to do it because it's regarded as a
dreadful task not worthy of your
valuable time and energy however the act
of cleaning can be a great meditative
moment in which you not only sort out
your living space but show gratitude to
your material possessions and experience
the present moment if done correctly
Buddhist monk thich natin once wrote a
passage about how washing the dishes can
ease the mind I quote while washing the
dishes one should only be washing the
dishes which means one should be
completely aware of the fact that one is
washing the dishes at first glance that
might seem a little silly why put so
much stress on a simple thing but that's
precisely the point the fact that I'm
standing there and washing is a wondrous
reality I'm being completely myself
following my breath conscious of my
presence and conscious of my thoughts
and actions there's no way I can be
tossed around mindlessly like a bottle
slapped here and there on the waves and
quote the way technolon describes it by
immersing yourself in a mundane house
chore you can engage in a Buddhist
practice called mindfulness which can
ease stress anxiety and depression dr.
Jordan Peterson advises his clients to
clean up their external environment to
fix themselves
psychologically before starting a
treatment he puts it and I quote your
room isn't not you it's actually you and
quote this means that if you want to
take care of yourself you take care of
your room also the act of cleaning is an
experience of progression from chaos to
order and that experience alone can be a
very fulfilling one it's like the
satisfaction of solving a puzzle at
mindfulness to the mix and you have an
insanely powerful and useful meditation
practice you kill two birds with one
stone
you decrease your suffering by creating
a proper living space and you'll get
calm and peaceful while doing it thank
you for watching
[Music]
you